Erik Long: Hello.
Dr Jameson: Hi there, I was relatively fast, it's been taking them for things to
Dr Jameson: Fully connect. Anyway, I've got your Jamison, nice to meet you.
Erik Long: Nice to me.
Dr Jameson: If you could confirm your name and birthdate for me.
Erik Long: Eric long February 28 1997
Dr Jameson: You're in Ohio. Right.
Yep.
Dr Jameson: And they've already had you sign consents. I think you're aware that these get recorded until the transcription can be
Dr Jameson: typed up
Dr Jameson: Okay, so are you. Have you been in treatment already or says new for you.
Erik Long: To rehab three times.
Erik Long: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay. But right now, you're not in treatment currently
Know,
Erik Long: Right.
Dr Jameson: Some people are transferring in from other programs. So it's just kind of a
Dr Jameson: First. First.
Dr Jameson: Decision tree step there. OK. So the way this today's is it is sort of just a medical history assessment confirm that you seem to have a you know dependence on opiates and then make sure that it seems like a good
Dr Jameson: Fit for the medication that we typically use and explain you know sort of how it works and all that kind of stuff, and then
Dr Jameson: hopefully get you started. If, if, if everything
Dr Jameson: Seems to line up right
Dr Jameson: To usually does.
Dr Jameson: So I have to ask some kind of basic questions like are you allergic to any medication.
Erik Long: Not that I know.
Dr Jameson: And are you treated with any manic, are you, I'm presenting prescription medications.
Erik Long: Or Wellbutrin right now.
Dr Jameson: Okay, do you happen it's okay if you don't, but do you happen to know if it's the 150 or 300
Erik Long: I'm only 150 at the moment.
Dr Jameson: Is it the one a day one.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And anything else just that.
Erik Long: Just that
Dr Jameson: All right, so then family history. Is there a family history of addiction or alcohol.
Erik Long: Alcoholism runs rampant.
Dr Jameson: Who has that
Erik Long: My dad's recovering. My mom's are covering my uncle's are covering
Erik Long: Most people are covering at this point.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I'm both sides of the family.
Dr Jameson: And did you see any siblings or just parents
Erik Long: I've pretty much scared all my siblings away from every touching drugs or alcohol. So, okay.
Dr Jameson: One second. There is somebody else in my waiting room which shouldn't be. And I think I know who it is. I just want to send a message to
Dr Jameson: co workers to
Dr Jameson: Reach out to him because he's going to be sitting there a long time maybe
Dr Jameson: We send a message. Sorry.
Dr Jameson: I just
Dr Jameson: Please.
Dr Jameson: It's gonna bother me.
Dr Jameson: Okay. All right. Okay. Okay. So alcohol on both sides of your family.
Erik Long: My mom was also will she was prescribed do it I guess for like from two doctors like six milligrams a day. Next, a day.
Erik Long: Oh, yeah.
But she
Erik Long: Went to rehab like two years ago.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Excellent. Okay.
Dr Jameson: The movie you know this but pencils and alcohol or affect the same receptor.
Dr Jameson: So it's kind of all the same, the same
Dr Jameson: So every
Dr Jameson: Oh,
Dr Jameson: Alright and then
Cabos
Dr Jameson: Oh yes, I don't even remember that off the top of my head. Good for you.
Dr Jameson: And then father also History of policy.
Dr Jameson: All right. Anything else medical things that run in your family.
Erik Long: Anxiety, depression,
Dr Jameson: Depression.
Dr Jameson: Anything else
Dr Jameson: Have you had any operations.
Know,
Dr Jameson: And I guess you're treated for depression.
Erik Long: Yeah, that's what the will be transport.
Dr Jameson: Yes, we use it for smoking cessation.
Erik Long: Yeah, I was used for me for that. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: It's sometimes used for weight loss, but mostly it's for anti it's an antidepressant mean. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so you have you've been diagnosed with depression. Any other I know the opiates will come back to that. But any other
Dr Jameson: Have you had like suicide attempts, as have been hospitalization.
Erik Long: Well, I've overdose before
Dr Jameson: Maybe on purpose.
Dr Jameson: No. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so depending on how you look at that. I don't know that I would call that a suicide attempt. If you
Erik Long: Mean, oh, you said
Erik Long: Hospitalization so
Dr Jameson: Okay, fair enough. I was thinking about the
Dr Jameson: Depression, specifically, but okay.
Dr Jameson: So you were hospitalized, but I
Dr Jameson: You're, you're answering the question I asked, so I just didn't ask my question very, very carefully. Okay, so you've had one overdose and hospitalization and more than one
Just one.
Dr Jameson: How long ago was that
Erik Long: Say, six months ago.
Dr Jameson: Like I see what probably was. I see you. How long were you in there.
Erik Long: Two hours.
Erik Long: Oh, you get lost.
Dr Jameson: In er. Okay, so it was really not even admission to the hospital was just an ER visit. Okay.
Dr Jameson: No.
Dr Jameson: Any other significant medical events and you
Erik Long: Know, that's a really good
Dr Jameson: All right.
Dr Jameson: So you do smoke cigarettes.
Erik Long: I smoke our user base smokin Joe
Dr Jameson: I don't know if that's better or worse, but
Erik Long: I don't know either. But
Erik Long: At least I can run and cough up alone so
Dr Jameson: Okay, for now. Good. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Well, someday, hopefully.
Erik Long: Is in my voice.
Dr Jameson: You have why
Erik Long: No, I was kidding. I said, until there's some system.
Erik Long: Yeah.
I know
Dr Jameson: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: I don't even know that this one of my one of my concerns about these things. It's like
Dr Jameson: Documenting how much you're using, I guess. So I guess it's a cartridge related right
Erik Long: Yeah, I do. One Carter today, which is like
Erik Long: Equivalent to like a pack separate okay where's the nicotine.
Erik Long: Yeah. Hope hopefully less carcinogens below and others.
Dr Jameson: Yeah I don't know either. It seems to be inflamed. It's definitely causes inflammation. So an inflammation is underlies a lot of cancer. So I don't know.
Dr Jameson: But hopefully we'll, we'll tackle that
Dr Jameson: relatively soon. Maybe after we get this other stuff under control, but that would be that would be fantastic. When you are interested
Dr Jameson: Alcohol at all for you.
Erik Long: I prefer not to drink. Okay.
Erik Long: I mean I have in the past when I drink. I definitely drink like an alcoholic.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so it's your you suspect there would be a problem if you did it.
Dr Jameson: Much
Erik Long: Later, okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, not trying
Dr Jameson: To do so, you binge.
Erik Long: Yeah, just can't stop myself so yeah
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then
Dr Jameson: How are you, how old are you,
Erik Long: 23
Dr Jameson: And three, how much, how much school if you finished.
Erik Long: Like a year or college
Dr Jameson: Working. And that's how you doing,
Erik Long: Yeah, I have a job right now.
Dr Jameson: When you do
Erik Long: I worked for all these
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Is that recent with the outbreak or you were there.
Erik Long: You go, my friend got me a seasonal job, but I think it might turn into
Erik Long: Okay, so I get along really well with everybody there.
Dr Jameson: And how about before that. Well, it's been various that sort of stuff. My sister's restaurant.
Erik Long: Yeah. Before that, I was like, unemployed for like two months.
Erik Long: So even before the outbreak, so
Dr Jameson: Any legal situations, you're dealing with
Erik Long: I'm currently trying to get something expunged. But yeah, I got arrested when I was 18
Erik Long: And then
Dr Jameson: Because of possession
Erik Long: Deal. You guys are stealing beer from a gas station.
Dr Jameson: Boy, okay.
Erik Long: And then that turned into two years of probation me failing a shit ton of drug tests and then me going to rehab.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Are you still on probation.
No.
Dr Jameson: But that was a mandated we have, yeah.
Dr Jameson: So currently,
Dr Jameson: No.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: You have a license or is that
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That can get in the way of life. When you don't have a license.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and
Dr Jameson: Do you have kids.
No.
Erik Long: Thank
Dr Jameson: You i'm not i i guess i'm not like politically able to comment but
Dr Jameson: Then
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I was just gonna say I lost my okay I'm relationship. Not really. Who do you live with.
Erik Long: My parents right now.
Dr Jameson: So you're single and any other
Dr Jameson: bendel's or math.
Dr Jameson: Lead or anything.
Erik Long: Like within pasty are now really
Erik Long: Was anything before that I did a bunch of everything.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so what what happened a year ago that change that.
Erik Long: Well, that's when I got out of my last rehab.
Erik Long: I
Erik Long: Kind of, I haven't gotten back to anything but I've gone back to
Erik Long: Opiates
Dr Jameson: So, use a lot of things after we have, it's been mainly just opiates.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so, then tell me you're pretty young. So when did you start did this start with experimentation or prescription for something like what happened.
Erik Long: Home when I was like eight years old, I got prescribed to Dexter amphetamine.
Erik Long: Daily for like school
Erik Long: Was I had ADHD.
Erik Long: And then
Erik Long: When I was 14 I got prescribed Xanax for social and separation anxiety.
Erik Long: And
Erik Long: Then I was like 16 starts drinking and smoking weed.
Dr Jameson: That was
Erik Long: Socially with. Yeah, I was just social yeah
Erik Long: Then that kept going to like after my first semester at college. And then I kind of got in trouble. And then I got arrested and then my dad was like I'm pulling you out of college. I'm not paying for that shit so
Dr Jameson: Here. Okay.
Erik Long: Yes, and I was stuck in my parents basement and I just started getting high alone.
Dr Jameson: And that was with on
Dr Jameson: With what
Erik Long: Whatever I could get my hands on.
Erik Long: Okay, but I didn't start, I'd say for like until it's like at least 19 and then you know it started with like Percocet and like oxy 30s.
Erik Long: And harrowing the buying straight fentanyl
Erik Long: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Sorry, I was still typing Tommy sorry we started the opiates. How old how long ago.
Erik Long: When I was 19 so four years ago.
Dr Jameson: 19 and that was alone or with friends.
Erik Long: Alone or whatever they used to my friends. Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so far so as you said, Percocet.
Dr Jameson: Then what else did you say sorry
Erik Long: I said oxy 30s. Those are basically the same thing.
Erik Long: As Percocet and then heroin.
Erik Long: And then
Erik Long: Like straight fentanyl
Erik Long: But it never showed up.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: Okay. So currently, so you snow, how you, how you use it, smoking.
Erik Long: inflation rate.
Dr Jameson: Okay snorting
Dr Jameson: How much are you using right now.
Erik Long: I'm
Erik Long: Ready now upgrade.
Erik Long: Taking them orally recently because I've been trying to wean myself down what I'm on like probably 45 milligrams of oxy a day.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I'm glad you're not still using the fentanyl
Dr Jameson: That
Erik Long: Put me in the hospital.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Well, besides the fact that it yes can kill it kills people very well.
Dr Jameson: It's also so strong that the Suboxone is we have a hard time sometimes making that transition that people need to start with methadone.
Erik Long: To taper that I've heard horror stories of methadone.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so, I mean,
Dr Jameson: It has, it has
Dr Jameson: I mean it works well for some people. I, you know,
Erik Long: Say works well to help them like get off stuff, but then like getting off the method.
Dr Jameson: Yes.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, but I mean to be fair, it can be hard to get off. It's hard to get off any opiates, so I don't know that.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I don't know that that
Dr Jameson: Really, I mean, it's hard to, it's hard to get off the box. I mean we have to taper. I mean, and, you know,
Same
Dr Jameson: There are some definite benefits compared. You know, when I believe between methadone and and Suboxone that Suboxone has a lot of ways that makes it superior but
Dr Jameson: There are some people that need the structure of a methadone clinic, like they just aren't there yet. And it does not require that you go into withdrawal before you take your dose so
Dr Jameson: Yeah, you know, there are some some things about it. And sometimes it's a good settings. Anyway, um,
Dr Jameson: So now oral use and back to oxycodone, what do you say 45 a day. Yeah.
Erik Long: 45 a day.
Dr Jameson: That's not bad.
Erik Long: Sometimes it takes 60 a day.
Dr Jameson: Okay. So, okay, it's
Erik Long: Horrible compared to what it was.
Dr Jameson: Well, I'm impressed that you have had the because that i mean i imagine you've you've suffered through some
Dr Jameson: Withdrawal
Dr Jameson: Process of that so
Erik Long: Yeah, I'm still I haven't taken any today. Okay.
Dr Jameson: I'm
Dr Jameson: Sorry. Give me one second.
Dr Jameson: Welcome multitask.
Working from home.
Dr Jameson: Alright, so. Okay, so tell me, You sound like you pretty knowledgeable about a lot of this stuff. So tell me what you know already, so I don't go over stuff that you already know about Suboxone or buprenorphine.
Erik Long: So at one point I was prescribed W Tex.
Erik Long: A couple months.
Erik Long: And then actually helped me a lot.
Erik Long: But then they tried to cut me off it. And that didn't go so well.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so they IT WAS WHAT KIND OF A PLACE. WHAT WAS IT
Erik Long: Was it. Yeah, okay. It was when I was going into like I op that will yeah
Dr Jameson: Okay, so when you went to rehab. You did an inpatient detox to or how to
Dr Jameson: Do it where you okay and then straight from there to the IoT
Erik Long: Yeah, but they gave me like a really low dose computex
Dr Jameson: Just when you were in Iowa here and the detox to
Erik Long: In the detox to
Erik Long: The whole way through.
Dr Jameson: Okay, good. I was gonna say otherwise. I'm kind of crawl.
Erik Long: The parks would have been horrible.
Dr Jameson: Yes, yes. And then he did. I repeat that they just have like a protocol for you do it for so long. And then you come off or did you get kicked out or what happened.
Dr Jameson: Okay, by the way, I'm just so I know where we're at.
Erik Long: A few I didn't get kicked out of. But I would actually went out of business. It's called. It was called recovery road.
Erik Long: Another business and they just clone them. Everybody got yeah
Dr Jameson: So then you kind of suddenly had to stop it.
Erik Long: Yeah, really.
Dr Jameson: So now you know i mean that's the, that's the same
Dr Jameson: You know phenomenon as as anything else you stop suddenly maybe and I you know better than I think people it because it's a longer acting drug than a lot of the other ones that you you would otherwise be coming across. Maybe it's a slightly less
Erik Long: Subtle you know
Dr Jameson: It's more gradual, but it still gives you the same
Dr Jameson: Experience, unfortunately. So which Tommy, when
Erik Long: We puke or anything.
Erik Long: Okay, everyone does. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: So, okay. So that was actually my next question was telling me about your withdrawal and
Dr Jameson: What can what's happening right now.
Erik Long: What's happening right now. It's just like headache overnight. I get like hot and cold flushes, you know, restless legs is the worst one I freaking hate that.
Dr Jameson: You can't sleep right
I
Erik Long: Can get like a couple hours a night. But yeah, okay.
Dr Jameson: Usually people
Erik Long: Can see much insomnia.
Dr Jameson: Okay, and then
Dr Jameson: In some new restless legs hot and cold vomiting when it's heroin.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, and headaches.
Erik Long: Oh yeah, and like, um,
Erik Long: So my digestion problems.
Dr Jameson: That area.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Do
Dr Jameson: Some people yawn a lot or their nose runs
Erik Long: You know,
Dr Jameson: And then you get pain, besides a headache.
Erik Long: Like a kind of ugly flu symptoms like
Erik Long: achy joints. Yeah, yeah, it's pretty common to
Dr Jameson: Okay, so that's the worst scenario case scenario, what's happening. You said you haven't used to deck. So when's the last time you
Erik Long: Last night.
Erik Long: Last night at
Erik Long: Nine o'clock.
Dr Jameson: And are they fives or what 15 or what are you
Dr Jameson: 15 okay so you took 15 last night around nine. And so how what's happening right now.
Erik Long: But headache.
Erik Long: And, you know, just my body. I feel like I've played a little bit but
Dr Jameson: Yes. Okay, so
Dr Jameson: Do you remember
Dr Jameson: Okay. The reason I'm asking is, is, and I mentioned that a minute ago, but it's important that you're in withdrawal and we introduce the we don't really use the sub you text, unless you're pregnant.
Dr Jameson: So it'll be some buprenorphine naloxone, but it's basically the same thing than the locks on is actually, as you know, because you took the street.
Dr Jameson: buprenorphine before and the subtext. That's the blocker. It's not actually naloxone is a blocker, but it in the formulation that you get, then the last one actually is not even absorbed through your
Dr Jameson: Mucous membranes. It's there.
Dr Jameson: To keep people from doing something else with this.
Dr Jameson: And we don't want you to do so.
Erik Long: I've seen people do with sub effects.
Dr Jameson: Yes. So several texts does not have that built in, and therefore it's more at risk for
Dr Jameson: What we call diversion. Right.
Dr Jameson: So it shouldn't really change. I mean, people sometimes say that they get a you know nauseous or something you know like big things that are different between the two. But, or the taste or something but
Dr Jameson: But, in and of itself. It's dead by the way it's designed, you're not actually really getting any naloxone in you.
Dr Jameson: If you take the medicine, the way it's supposed to be.
Erik Long: Like they'll check so
Dr Jameson: naloxone is Narcan
Erik Long: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, but if they are
Dr Jameson: They are related, in a sense, yeah. Now checks on in the locks on our kind of cousins of each other and
Erik Long: Another rehab. They tried to put me on no tricks.
Mm.
Dr Jameson: Hmm.
Dr Jameson: Well, they're related. And I think if you. Well, you could have a side effect to it, but you could also have stuff, you know, it could have put you into what's are all
Erik Long: We know that makes sense that it's not to be absorbed. Well, the buprenorphine well
Dr Jameson: Uh huh.
Erik Long: sobering going
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, so that's it was it was done more as a you know there have been a not that they work that well. But
Dr Jameson: What was it oh panna or
Dr Jameson: Yeah, like they've tried to create
Dr Jameson: mechanisms by which it makes the particular
Dr Jameson: Substance less
Dr Jameson: Amenable to be abused. I know they have largely failed.
Erik Long: But it got abused a lot
I know
Dr Jameson: I know
Dr Jameson: The first time I came across oh pan is totally tangent, but I was I'm
Dr Jameson: Not doing addiction medicine. I was a family practice. I am a family practice, Doc. So I still wasn't and I had an elderly patient who lived in like a nursing home or assisted living and she had a lot of a lot of like arthritis and stuff.
Dr Jameson: But she also had a crazy son and
Dr Jameson: Anyway, somehow she was doing fine, but it was like he kept on meddling and like making a stink with different doctors appointments so that the doctors would like
Dr Jameson: You know, do something. And so anyway, some point she got prescribed this open and I never heard of it before but I walked into
Dr Jameson: A room.
Erik Long: Is so
Dr Jameson: I walked into her room and she was like, totally nodding and I you know when an old person is doing that you think, Oh my God, if they had a stroke. You like you
Dr Jameson: Know what's going on. And I was like, Oh my gosh, and then I went and looked up the medicine and the way that they marketed it kind of like actually content they made it sound like it was, you know, not really.
Erik Long: Didn't even easy strong
Dr Jameson: I know, but they kind of made it sound like a weak opioid opiate like thing like
Erik Long: They kind of tried to make it
Dr Jameson: Not really. What it really was and
Dr Jameson: I figured it out though. Mike, I think that stuff is making because then I saw her two days later she was fine again. And I was like, okay, that stuff and I tried to tell her son like she shouldn't take that stuff. It's making her and he got like anyway. He was all crazy but
Dr Jameson: In other words, I saw it firsthand, like, oh, okay, this stuff is not not
Dr Jameson: Not
Dr Jameson: Like oh
Erik Long: Anyway, I've taken one of those ones before and definitely it's not, it's no week or version of anything.
Dr Jameson: Now, I know.
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so we digress, but
Dr Jameson: The point is that
Dr Jameson: To answer your question.
Dr Jameson: The Naltrexone as opposed to decrease desire.
Dr Jameson: To use it. We use it for alcohol abuse to actually sometimes
Dr Jameson: Yeah, and that's what the vivid troll shot is
Dr Jameson: That you have to have not use any opiates for at least I believe it's 10 days, but at least seven
Erik Long: Girls, you go to
Dr Jameson: Which so kind of up north and we don't have to wait that long for the buprenorphine. Fortunately, because
Dr Jameson: I believe I have to look it up again. But I believe I mean certainly now no luck. So Narcan is just a blocker like it goes in and it pushes the other stuff off and that's why you suddenly feel terrible.
Dr Jameson: buprenorphine does that. But it also occupies and stimulates the receptors. It doesn't just block things. So you get kind of a mix. Like it would for to into withdrawal, but it also
Dr Jameson: If we time it right, it blocks. Other opiates from getting in there. So someone tries to relapse.
Dr Jameson: It, they don't get their, their
Dr Jameson: My
Erik Long: I looked it up. It's like a partial agonist.
Dr Jameson: You got it.
Dr Jameson: So, huh, but it also sets stops the withdrawal symptoms because it's still like
Dr Jameson: tickling those receptors enough
Dr Jameson: To keep all that stuff from from happening. So, and it as you sounds like you've read, but it does not much, maybe a trace amount, but it doesn't stimulate or it doesn't do the sedation, which then can lead to respiratory depression and stopping breathing, which is
Dr Jameson: No people overdose. It doesn't really hit that one very much are
Dr Jameson: Activated much more blocks that one. Similarly with euphoria doesn't much. I don't know what your experience was with it. Some people will say they do feel a little high with and we usually they are extra sensitive and we just need a lower dose.
Dr Jameson: The way that I've seen that happened in every single thing is is that everyone's built a little differently. And some of us have a lot more of one kind of receptor and very few of the other
Erik Long: Which is
Dr Jameson: I believe why someone like me who takes Percocet. After my C section just falls asleep but doesn't feel
Dr Jameson: Anything different
Dr Jameson: And some people take it and are like totally energized and feel like, oh my god.
Erik Long: I've never felt so good in their life.
Dr Jameson: Because I you know so many people will be like, how get it, and I'm like, I don't really get it either. I mean, but obviously we're not all wired the same so
Dr Jameson: If you happen to have a ton of one kind of receptor, maybe this will still give you some euphoria or still some sedation.
Dr Jameson: And and also when we keep on activating these receptors. As you know, we kind of increase the, the amount of them that you have and it changes your, your, your wiring gets all
Erik Long: Neuro plasticity.
Dr Jameson: Yes, so you know all the lingo. My goodness.
Erik Long: Yeah, my parents are both PhDs.
Dr Jameson: Okay, good.
Dr Jameson: Um, so, right. So some of that can be reversed with time it some of it depends on how long and how young you were when you started using and that kind of thing, but
Dr Jameson: Not all of it is reversed. So, you know, I've seen. Same thing with with alcoholics. I had a patient, not too long ago and I was even surprised.
Dr Jameson: She had been sober for, like, I don't even know how long. And she just had a bad. I don't know. She just she started drinking. She said within like three days she was already having to have an I have like a
Dr Jameson: What do you call eye opener.
Erik Long: Actually was already. Yeah, yeah.
Dr Jameson: She was already dependent physically like
Erik Long: Instant or the dog.
Dr Jameson: Mm hmm. And I never, I never realized that could happen. So again, so fast, but it's almost like you just pick up right where you left off, it doesn't
Dr Jameson: You don't have to do this whole building
Dr Jameson: It works. Yeah, so
Dr Jameson: Horrible. Right. So some of its reverse, but not all of it so
Dr Jameson: So the way that we take kind of the approach that
Dr Jameson: Whatever we focus on harm reduction. So whatever we okay legally whatever legally, we can do to
Dr Jameson: Don't take that the wrong way. But whatever we can do to help decrease or not eliminate probably but decrease as much as possible, the likelihood that our patients are going to return to us is what we want to do. And if that means people need to take Suboxone for their entire lives.
Dr Jameson: It's not ideal but it's better than it's better than using then again.
Dr Jameson: You know, you can look at it like you know something, there's kind of a debate in the in the medical community as well as in the, you know, population in general, are we just replacing one thing for another. And in a sense we are but we're replacing something that's
Dr Jameson: Quality controlled, you know, you get the same dose. Every time you use it, it's safer. It's, you know, there. It has a lot of benefit.
Erik Long: My arguments with my parents.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, doesn't change your level of consciousness. Here you function like a regular your own self, your brain. You're, you're thinking clearly and you know if over time.
Dr Jameson: We can very very very very very gradually and not not yet but you know sometimes and I think
Dr Jameson: Like years later, probably we start that process and works, then so be it. But, but the statistics are not very encouraging about what happens after we stop. So we, we, kind of, you know, you know, you gotta really think long and hard before you sort of release somebody back to, oh, natural because
Erik Long: There's
Erik Long: An overlooked a well for me.
Dr Jameson: My opinion is that
Dr Jameson: There's and I say the same about smoking cigarettes do actually there's a chemical
Dr Jameson: Dependence physical dependence, which obviously is much stronger with opiates and nicotine, then there's a behavior habit and we are obviously
Dr Jameson: Fixed, you know, addressing the physical stuff with the medication, but that doesn't if we don't like also deal with how mindset and how we think about things and how we address
Stress and
Dr Jameson: You know,
Dr Jameson: What's the word
Dr Jameson: I can't think.
Dr Jameson: Anymore. Yeah, you're, you're, you're not ever going to get over the hump, basically. So
Erik Long: That was also part of the discussion. I had my parents is I have to like
Erik Long: Go to therapy.
Erik Long: Meetings and
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it's struggling trying to
Erik Long: Meditate and do and
Dr Jameson: Be open to thinking about things different ways trying different things, acknowledging. Okay, maybe I don't have all the answers here. Because you know what I've been doing hasn't been working and none of us do.
Dr Jameson: Everyone has their thing. So
Dr Jameson: You know, it's not you know that I say that to myself to oh I don't have the answers and
Dr Jameson: I think you know that's. Yeah, right. So that's a long term process though, right. You don't just flip a switch and suddenly become an optimist. If you've always been a pessimist, you know, suddenly develop this
Dr Jameson: Great self esteem if you haven't had one. If you've had traumas in your life that those need to be processed and healed and you know there's a lot to it. So that takes time, and I think that's why you know the studies have history so far studies to date are extremely
Dr Jameson: You know, negative about it. We're not encouraging about what happens when we, when we you know discontinue but I don't think we've may be done the studies.
Dr Jameson: That show what happens when we we incorporate pretty intensive and I just mean prolonged not every day. Yeah, counseling and kind of give it a longer amount of time to let your life.
Dr Jameson: Flourish. To the point where you have gotten and that doesn't always protect people either. But the more you have to lose.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, that's what I mean.
Erik Long: That's why I'm trying this out.
Erik Long: Yes, I want to actually be able to build something without being completely fucking miserable because my life. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well, I think you sound like you have a lot of potential
Dr Jameson: You have, I think it sounds like you have pretty good support system.
Erik Long: My parents are very supportive.
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Erik Long: And they and everyone sober in my house.
Dr Jameson: That's awesome. Good.
Erik Long: No drugs or alcohol and, you know,
Dr Jameson: And I part of me when I heard you say that you were mainly getting high by yourself.
Dr Jameson: I thought, oh, that's kind of sad. But then I also was thinking, but that means you don't have to do this whole you know trimming and like
Dr Jameson: Cutting out oh yeah all
Dr Jameson: Parts of their lives. A little, yeah.
Erik Long: All the topics that are here. Well, okay. So when I went to rehab. I moved to Florida for two years. Okay. And that's where I went to rehab three times. Okay, and then
Erik Long: When I during that whole process. I kind of like have rehab. You know, you're supposed to delete all the negative contacts you have in our out. So I did that, then I moved back up here. I still have a couple really close friends, or like either normal or sober. So those are really do.
Dr Jameson: You mean that
Dr Jameson: Are not addicts.
Dr Jameson: Recover
Erik Long: Like they can drink a beer and just like
Dr Jameson: Okay cuz I don't know. I don't want you to
Dr Jameson: That implies that you're abnormal, which I
Erik Long: I don't know if I will
Erik Long: I'm an addict.
Dr Jameson: That's yes but that's it's like, yeah, I try to include what if you have maybe you don't really have reservations about this whole idea, but for people that do I try to say, well, what if we told you have diabetes and you need to take medication.
Dr Jameson: Would you because your body's not doing something chemically it's supposed to do. Would you be I mean people don't like when they're diagnosed with diabetes. Don't get me wrong, but you don't consider your it's not some sort of you're not a pariah.
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so
Dr Jameson: So it sounds like you have a pretty good grasp on how the medication works. Do you remember you said it was a low dose that they had you on. You remember
Erik Long: I think it was like eight or 10 milligrams of people are saying
Dr Jameson: Okay, I know they do things a little different in the inpatient because they sometimes use the two milligram dose and then so many a day because it comes in 248 but with Malcolm and 10 so maybe it was eight. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Um, so the sort of average, typical dose is 60 milligrams a day.
Dr Jameson: Plus or minus. And, you know, the lower the less you can use and shouldn't take more than you need. Obviously, and that's
Dr Jameson: You know that much less that we someday need to taper and mean away but
Dr Jameson: Everyone's different. But I would say
Dr Jameson: Well, what I would suggest we do is sort of the usual induction, process, procedure because actually your current daily dose is, I would say, moderate, like, I mean, it's not a high amount at this point. So hopefully, we don't need a super huge amount to kind of offset the
Dr Jameson: To satisfy your receptor is basically. So what I would suggest is, we use the eight. It comes with eight slash to because there's no lesson is to
Dr Jameson: Have you take a half and see how that goes. And then you can take the other half an hour later if you still feel icky.
Dr Jameson: Or maybe you'll take a half in the morning and a half at night and that will be your daily dose lives just kind of test it out and see how, see how it works. What, what, what you need to do.
Dr Jameson: To feel normal.
Dr Jameson: How tall are you,
Dr Jameson: You know how much you weigh about 150
Erik Long: Well, yeah, when I was on a before I got down to like eight milligrams. I started me like I should like, I think it was 12
Dr Jameson: Yeah, I mean, like I said, it's more important to me that you feel comfortable so that you're not having cravings and not you know white knuckling it basically
Dr Jameson: You can focus on other things. So if it's 12 if it's eight if it's 16
Dr Jameson: It's really whatever is that right dose for for you right now.
Dr Jameson: So I'll write the prescription in such a way, I got to look you up in the sorry I gotta look you up with
Dr Jameson: Drug monitoring systems.
Dr Jameson: Okay, I gotta reset my password.
Erik Long: What's a drug monitoring system.
Dr Jameson: Oh, the
Dr Jameson: The dates have a
Dr Jameson: In response to all the opiate stuff you know how people doctor shop and, you know,
Erik Long: Say I had
Erik Long: Like a centralized from another doctor
Dr Jameson: It's a centralized
Dr Jameson: Place to
Erik Long: Keep track of people account. Yeah, so like every pharmacy is
Dr Jameson: Updating when they dispense something to a patient. So you can look them up and see, oh, they got a prescription from the doctor and they fill it with that prescription and then they got, you know, it's a way of monitoring basically now we're legally
Dr Jameson: Required to run that report before we prescribe
Dr Jameson: A variety of things including this so
Dr Jameson: Those are
Erik Long: Controlled substances.
Dr Jameson: In different states are different, but I'm sorry. Bear with me because then my neighbors. I had to reset my password, and that means I have to put my old password which
Dr Jameson: number off the top of my head.
Dr Jameson: You know, cause so many billions of passwords or anything.
Erik Long: Yeah. Write them down, but I have to take a look at my notes.
Dr Jameson: Okay. Um, but anyway.
Dr Jameson: Please.
Dr Jameson: And then we are
Dr Jameson: We are requests are they're asking me
Dr Jameson: Identification questions. Oh my god, I'm
Dr Jameson: Sorry.
Dr Jameson: We run the report every month to just to double check that.
Dr Jameson: We don't have any surprises.
Dr Jameson: And that's actually also mandated by law. So
Erik Long: Wait. What state are you in. Are you in Cali
Dr Jameson: I'm actually, I'm actually in Florida.
Oh,
Dr Jameson: Yeah.
Erik Long: I was living in Delray
Dr Jameson: Okay and true. Yeah, I think. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: There has been
Dr Jameson: Didn't have a lowercase letter. And my first
Dr Jameson: Choice. This is taking forever.
Dr Jameson: Lord, I can't think of anything. You know, you run out of password ideas, after a while.
Dr Jameson: They've been talking about how there's all these rehabs there that are
Dr Jameson: Basically like
Erik Long: Yeah, they're closing down
Erik Long: Well, I
Dr Jameson: Was probably all the pill mills that started doing
Dr Jameson: Dipping rehab instead of one after the other. It's awful.
Erik Long: Yeah.
I remember on
Erik Long: One of them is really good, though. One of the rehabs I went to down there. I have friends who work at it, it's called immersion.
Uh huh.
Erik Long: But it's very big book 12 step very, very big book 12 step.
Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Well,
But
Erik Long: Everybody either
Erik Long: They don't treat the people like $1 sign as much as the other ones I've been to. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Oh yeah, oh no you're not only are you leave your baby.
Erik Long: One day off.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Erik Long: But I wasn't born very leap year
Dr Jameson: 1787. That's right. That's an odd number. So I guess everyone
Dr Jameson: Patients found no prescriptions found. So you haven't had any prescription like controlled substances.
Know, sometime
Erik Long: I can tell you the truth, I promise.
Dr Jameson: I know I will. I
Dr Jameson: That's what it says, I'm just, you didn't tell me you had so okay so
Dr Jameson: There is an induction protocol. I don't know if you saw that on our, on our site anywhere. Did you come across it.
No, that's all right.
Dr Jameson: And then there's films and there's tablets.
Dr Jameson: And some people have a preference one. Some people prefer the other. And sometimes we insurance has a preference, often they prefer tablets, because they're cheaper.
Erik Long: New tablets are cheaper the tablets dissolve under the title already taken now.
Dr Jameson: You still dissolve them.
Erik Long: Let's go with whatever is cheaper.
Dr Jameson: And sometimes there's a prior off, it has to be completed and
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so we we sometimes have to
Dr Jameson: Jump through some hoops to get
Dr Jameson: To get things using a CVS right
Mm hmm.
Dr Jameson: Better address because their system.
Dr Jameson: So I live in Florida. I work. Well, I work here now. But before worked here. I worked for different telemedicine companies. So I have about 15 state licenses, because it is a national thing.
Dr Jameson: And I have the licenses in Ohio and California and Florida and a variety of other places, but our prescription only can list one. So, it lists the California address because that's the main headquarters of our company.
Dr Jameson: And that gets the pharmacy, the local pharmacies all in a tizzy because they don't like seeing that out of state.
Dr Jameson: Maybe. Things are different now because of this outbreak, but I'm just gonna put my whole
Dr Jameson: My whole address on there for them to see okay so
Dr Jameson: I'm going to write the prescription
Erik Long: Wanted the people normally prefer the film or the tablet, so
Dr Jameson: Different people say different things like some people don't like the taste of a film.
Dr Jameson: Some people find one. I don't know. So it's half and half. So,
Dr Jameson: We can stick in that same base.
Dr Jameson: Yeah, it's, I mean it's
Dr Jameson: That was just saying
Dr Jameson: And then if if you don't like on we can always try the other one. Depending on whether your insurance will go along with that, but
Erik Long: I don't think I think
Erik Long: My insurance as you get covering
Dr Jameson: You should
Erik Long: Know how to know, well I'll see when I go to the phone. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: If you're not going to be using your insurance, then make sure you are you familiar with a good Rx coupon.
Erik Long: Yeah yeah yeah
Erik Long: Yeah.
Erik Long: Make sure you without insurance is 240
Erik Long: Bucks for one box of spark so
Erik Long: But with it. It's like 35
Dr Jameson: Well, that's
Dr Jameson: Okay, it's okay because then there's a copay to that could be lost.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so then
Dr Jameson: So I'm going to write the prescription just says one twice a day.
Dr Jameson: I would like you to break it in half.
Dr Jameson: Well, I would like you to wait a little longer before you even take excited. I really, the more actually really sick. You're feeling, the less likely you are to have it actually create a withdrawal like the way
Dr Jameson: The tech sounded for you. So I we generally recommend waiting at least 24 hours or until you're like, I don't think I can handle. You know, I can't take it anymore.
Erik Long: Okay, so I possibly
Erik Long: Wait, how long do you think it will take to fill
Dr Jameson: Well,
Erik Long: And in a perfect
Dr Jameson: World, it should take an hour.
Dr Jameson: But it depends on, does the pharmacy have it in stock. Is there a prior off needed is
Erik Long: Is the farmers in
Erik Long: Ohio. I'm sure they have an inch every dope.
Dr Jameson: Well, yeah, but sometimes the pharmacy where we were only in the middle of month they have like a monthly supply so like limit supply and they're, you know, they can't sometimes, it can't take any new patients because they won't be able to keep everybody
Dr Jameson: They won't be able to provide the medication. By the end of the month.
Dr Jameson: I think I just saw an email that they may have waived a rule that pharmacies could only they have some ratio that they can't prescribe but more than
Dr Jameson: 5% of their total prescriptions, such as controlled substances, but I think I just saw an email from the DEA. I mean, I read it. And that's what I think I understood that they were trying to say was that
Dr Jameson: That is being lifted, so they're, they're the pharmacies are under a lot of scrutiny now rightfully so, I just, it bothers me that they can they can include the Suboxone in their, in their calculations, because
Dr Jameson: These are the people they're trying not to use the others. Come on, anyway.
Dr Jameson: So it shouldn't take too long. But like I say, I
Dr Jameson: I don't always have the final say on that.
Erik Long: Did they expect to power like for tonight.
Milligrams well
Dr Jameson: Yeah. Oh, I thought you meant for pills like no, yeah, no, I would say, you know, you take the half and then wait an hour. See how you feel. And if you're still not feeling much better. You take the other half.
Dr Jameson: And then tomorrow morning. So again, you know, if you're, if you had to take the second half tonight, then just go ahead and take the whole one tomorrow.
Dr Jameson: And you can either
Dr Jameson: Just do that for the day. It's technically a 24 hour drug seems like most of our patients feel better splitting it into two doses.
Dr Jameson: I don't know if that's just the behavior being used to having to dose yourself right
Dr Jameson: So really, that that just seems
Dr Jameson: Too long.
Erik Long: Ago. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: But technically it is a 24 hour medication. So
Dr Jameson: All right, so I'll you have some some flexibility there.
Dr Jameson: Did they explain to you how are like how our program is structured with the weekly groups and and
Dr Jameson: Or did you read about that. Are you familiar
Erik Long: Not 100%
Dr Jameson: So we do this meeting and then going forward.
Dr Jameson: We sometimes we have one extra visit in the middle, just depending on timing, but going forward. You and I see each other weekly in the, in the context of the group.
Dr Jameson: Visits. So it's me a counselor and eight to 10 patients. So we start every week with a who needs refills conversation and then
Dr Jameson: If it's somebody that's fairly new. We might also talk about how's the dose and how much did you end up meeting and doing need to adjust something, but usually fairly quickly. We get that you will. So it's really just who's, who needs. Who needs refills or not.
Dr Jameson: And then the counselor sort of takes over the rest of the meeting and we talk about recovery skills, etc, etc. So we start out with a week supply
Dr Jameson: And over time, when people are keeping their appointments and doing their drug screens and passing them and and was meeting with a counselor and sort of following all the
Dr Jameson: Rules of the program we eventually after a few months.
Dr Jameson: reward you with a two week at a time prescription and and then eventually a month at a time, but that
Dr Jameson: Is something you work up to. So my tools. My Ohio meetings. What's your, what are your work hours.
Erik Long: Well, normally work.
Erik Long: Your Tuesday Friday and Sunday. Okay, what like to to to to a
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Erik Long: One day, one day.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I have a 1030 Tuesday morning
Dr Jameson: Group, which probably
Dr Jameson: Because then I have a noon and a 130 and an 8pm
Dr Jameson: Sound like they would work very
Erik Long: Well, on Tuesday.
Erik Long: Tuesday mornings and then Friday and Sunday nights out. So if I could do 8pm on Tuesday.
Yes.
Erik Long: Okay, that would be perfect. Okay, so
Dr Jameson: I'm going to send a week supply
Dr Jameson: Which should be really more than enough to get you through next Tuesday, because we're already you know you're not even going to start it till tonight.
Dr Jameson: So I will send. I just wanted to make sure we have the correct duration before I sent it.
Dr Jameson: I'm going to send it right now. What I usually suggest is give the pharmacy. I mean, give me 20 minutes but give them a call fairly soon after this
Dr Jameson: And just innocently asked, Did you get just making sure the prescription came through and any idea when it will be ready and when, if they say, Oh, there's a private, you know, that's when you start to get a sense that we we have some other hoops that we have to jump through
Dr Jameson: And if you get that kind of message then
Dr Jameson: Go ahead and give us a call back
So we can
Dr Jameson: We can get on the horn. We have Danielle, does the prior offs and
Dr Jameson: The price is only an issue if your insurance is even involved. So if they're not going to cover it at all, then that is just a
Dr Jameson: You know, a moot point
Erik Long: Yeah. OK.
Dr Jameson: So my let's see was
Dr Jameson: Okay, so I gotta find space to to write even here.
Dr Jameson: Do you go by ego, Eric. There's no, not much, I guess, unless you go buy something else.
Erik Long: No, I go back here.
Dr Jameson: Okay, alright, so I'll pencil you in there and we'll assign to that group. Then you also will have a an initial meeting, like a intake, kind of like this with a with a therapist, and then at that point. They'll determine
Dr Jameson: What frequency, you're going to meet with individually with a counselor as well.
Dr Jameson: We usually that maybe takes a week or two to get scheduled, just to let everything on the dust settle kind
Dr Jameson: And you're going to have lab work, they talk to you about doing a bloodwork lab work.
No.
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: There's an order in here, but I don't know.
Dr Jameson: We have there's an initial round of blood work that we have people do. It's like screenings for and which isn't always relevant, but like screenings for various things you can catch sharing needles, but also blood, blood work like blood counts and liver and kidney and stuff like that.
Dr Jameson: And then a urine as well. So we usually use the quest lab.
Dr Jameson: Things are a little crazy right now, so I know some of them are not even like really open or not taking I'm not really sure. So you'll have to, I'll have Jamie. Did you have you met with Jamie or are Jane or who you were talking to
Erik Long: Remember,
Dr Jameson: Marvin.
Erik Long: Marvin.
Marvin, you
Dr Jameson: Must be. You haven't heard yet.
Dr Jameson: Okay, so that may be why you didn't hear about the laughs Okay.
Dr Jameson: We are growing like crazy.
Dr Jameson: So they're hiring, which is good, but what that means people are training so
Dr Jameson: Okay.
Dr Jameson: Hello.
Dr Jameson: My
Dr Jameson: Mom.
Dr Jameson: Please.
Dr Jameson: Clarify with
Dr Jameson: Lab order.
Dr Jameson: Quest
Dr Jameson: Location, etc. So we normally ask people to have bloodwork labs done within the first week.
Dr Jameson: If you find out that the local lab is like not available right now because of the coven stuff.
Dr Jameson: Let us know.
Dr Jameson: We can look into if you've had any labs done in the last six months that we can just get copies of or
Dr Jameson: You know, if we can't get labs, we can't get labs like can't, we can't fight that. But we can mail you that what what normally happens is after that first this first round of labs going forward. We do monthly
Dr Jameson: Medication drug screens, but we mail you a cup that has the little I'm sure you've seen those before with the little readers right and belong. The side of
Dr Jameson: It and you
Dr Jameson: Do it at home and hold it up to the camera.
Dr Jameson: There's a protocol for that too. But anyway, if we have to just mail you a cup right away instead of in a month.
Dr Jameson: To at least get the the drug screen part done as soon as possible. We can adjust our, our usual operating procedure for the moment.
Dr Jameson: But we'll try with the local lab and see if we can get
Dr Jameson: get that done as possible. Do you know if you've had any lab sun.
Erik Long: In the last know it's been like over a year since I had a lab. Alright.
Dr Jameson: And the last time you were in the in the treatment program was how long ago.
Erik Long: So, like, eight months ago, okay, because we
Dr Jameson: Might still but that's the one that went out of business.
Erik Long: No, that was immersion the good one.
Erik Long: Okay. Wonder went out of business was like a year and a half ago.
Dr Jameson: So we might sell something we if we can. It's nice to get records from previous treatment facility, just, you know, so we're all on the same page and
Dr Jameson: Not to
Dr Jameson: Just to confirm and sometimes there are things that you know you think you know and you don't you know you remembered wrong or whatever. So it's just good to
Have
Dr Jameson: I believe you've probably signed the lease on that too. So maybe they did some labs. I don't know. So we can look and see if we can gather anything from from the previous
Dr Jameson: Records, too.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: It's kind of a long time between now and Tuesday, which may be fine, because you've taken subjects before but
Dr Jameson: If there's any
Dr Jameson: I will do you feel like you'd like to have another check in between, like Friday, say, or
Erik Long: No, I'll be fine. Okay.
Erik Long: If things
Dr Jameson: If anything's going on or you have questions or something isn't right, or the tablets make you puke or
Dr Jameson: Something is happening just
Dr Jameson: Be in touch and we'll we can always try to find it, squeeze in a time I actually work somewhere else. I'm not really available in foreigners, but I can probably
Dr Jameson: If you don't mind me face timing or zooming from my car somewhere I can, I can probably make it work if we if we need to have a little conversation and just who knows if you have a question or it's not going well, or you know there's a problem, then just we'll figure that out. Otherwise,
Dr Jameson: Otherwise, we'll plan on seeing you next Tuesday and the protocol for that is you start in the virtual clinic basically for everything. But just like you did today. We asked people
Dr Jameson: Lately the zoom times and the volume has increased. So right now, we're asking people to check in, like, an hour early and hopefully you get checked in and then you can go do something else for 45 minutes and then come back.
Erik Long: When it's actually the tighter the
Group.
Dr Jameson: And you have earbuds so that's good. We just ask people not to be smoking during group and
Dr Jameson: You know the hip that your votes for HIPAA like privacy for other people in the group. So
Dr Jameson: Other than that, hopefully.
Dr Jameson: Hopefully it's fairly straightforward, you'll start getting emails with surveys and they're really into data collection, which is kind of a, it's a
Dr Jameson: Pain sometimes for you guys but it's good. Really, because we're able to track like what are the factors that are associated with people dropping out of treatment relaxing.
Dr Jameson: You know, so it's, it is really, it's good but it is work for you, so there there are emails you should be getting emails will survey links. And if you can do those ahead of time. So that's already done when you come to the time to check in.
Dr Jameson: That streamlines like that's what slows it down. A lot of people haven't filled out their surveys, so
Dr Jameson: Just watch for those. Um. Any questions before we go.
Erik Long: Um, okay, so eight o'clock Eastern time, right.
Dr Jameson: Yes, good question.
Dr Jameson: Are you Eastern or central
Erik Long: And Eastern
Dr Jameson: Okay, good.
And
Erik Long: Again, just to confirm tablets are sublingual
Dr Jameson: Yes.
Erik Long: Just like the strips, you
Dr Jameson: Use, you know, it's all the same thing. Don't eat or drink anything for 10 minutes and
Dr Jameson: Yeah. And if you're, you should be able to just split it in half. If you stick a half in there.
Dr Jameson: Some people do do that and just put one on each side, too. I think just because it can get a little
Erik Long: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: clumpy in there.
Erik Long: And then Marvin should call me about the lab at some point.
Dr Jameson: Hopefully, yes. I asked him to so
Erik Long: All right, and I should call the pharmacy in like
Dr Jameson: 30 minutes turn. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Just confirm everything seems like it's working as as design. If you know have a quest lab in your area.
Dr Jameson: Or maybe you can google the closest quest and just call them and ask if they can tell if they have an order for you in their system. If they do, and they're open you can just go ahead and go get it done.
Erik Long: That's
Dr Jameson: It was sent to quest i i don't know if they if it goes to their central computer or a specific location, but I think it should be the central location. I don't know if you can get anybody on the phone answer those kind of questions for you though.
Erik Long: Times, it's difficult at times.
Dr Jameson: It certainly is.
Dr Jameson: So you can take as much as two a day on the tablets don't go above that without talking to us first. Okay, and
Dr Jameson: If it's less than that, I think, so much the better. But that you take as much as you need to feel normal.
Erik Long: Basically
Dr Jameson: As long as it's not more than two.
Dr Jameson: Okay okay and and just to be clear, getting refills kind of requires you coming to group. So that's all you say that, but you would be
Dr Jameson: How many people just don't come and then call like in a panic. I met a mess. And I bet you are
Dr Jameson: What should we come. You know why we're doing group. So anyway,
Erik Long: All right.
Dr Jameson: All right. Nice to meet you.
Erik Long: Nice to meet you too. Thank you.
Dr Jameson: You're welcome. You know how to get out of here.
Erik Long: A quickly.
Dr Jameson: You got it. Sometimes you
Dr Jameson: Can't see believe so.
That's
Erik Long: Good.
Dr Jameson: To see you next week.
Erik Long: See ya.
Dr Jameson: What's up,
zachariah Giffin: Um, I brought the tell you on Tuesday. I have a prescription
zachariah Giffin: I'll spell it for you. I think it's the same thing is value. It's he are a p o l am.
Dr Jameson: OK. And that's for what
zachariah Giffin: I'm doing
zachariah Giffin: On Friday on Friday, I have to get my bottom teeth pulled and they want me to take it before an hour and a half before I go in
zachariah Giffin: I know I used to
zachariah Giffin: I used to be on color pen for anxiety, but since I'm one Suboxone you can't you can't mix benzo with them and I looked it up and it said it was volume. So I want to know if on Friday. Do I not take any Suboxone or should I not take it at all, or
Dr Jameson: Can you, um, how many milligrams. Does it say
zachariah Giffin: It's point 25 milligrams
zachariah Giffin: And they want to tablets.
Dr Jameson: They just wanting to take two tablets. An hour before
zachariah Giffin: An hour and a half before I go in before my appointment.
Dr Jameson: Okay. And it's all right.
Dr Jameson: Just looking up. I don't think that's a very high dose. So, so you're right.
Dr Jameson: Historically, there's been a big concern about
Dr Jameson: Trial. I'm okay. I don't use this particular one. Very often, but it is. You're right, it is a benzo and it
Dr Jameson: Healthy on. Oh.
Okay.
Dr Jameson: There has been I'm just reading I'm just looking up the dosing. It's up there has been a concern about
Dr Jameson: The combination because
Dr Jameson: In the very few cases where someone has died from like an overdose kind of thing and Suboxone has been buprenorphine has been involved. It's, I think, universally mixed with the when people when they get the drug tests back on the, you know, post mortem. They see the Suboxone and
Dr Jameson: pencils or alcohol or something else. So there's been a concern that the combination might increase the risk of overdose.
Dr Jameson: People are using when that's happened it's been because people are like melting and snort melting and shooting and you know just doing a lot of things you have to work really hard, actually, to
Dr Jameson: Overdose you can, but you have to really take a lot and in ginormous. You know, in ginormous doses, some other way than its design so
Dr Jameson: Long story short, they have in the last year or so guidelines have actually been published that the risks are much lower than we had previously thought.
Dr Jameson: And in patients that you know really can't don't do well without their daily benzo is like the risk of the combination is lower than the risk of people relaxing and overdosing and all this other stuff using street drugs. So long story short, I think it's fine for a single dose.
Dr Jameson: Is someone driving you what's the
Dr Jameson: Yeah yeah
zachariah Giffin: Yes, I have someone taking me in will be with me all day. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And how are you like nervous about the procedure or are you
zachariah Giffin: Kind of like I rather just take the two broken teeth off and the one next to it. I really don't want all my bottom keeps going back eventually they're taking all my bottom and my top I blessed was to get a top partial bottom denture. Now they think I should just get all of them poor
zachariah Giffin: I'm okay. I'm worried about. I love food.
zachariah Giffin: Yeah. Um, what about in afterwards. I'm always nervous about the procedure.
Dr Jameson: Because I was gonna say you could try it.
Dr Jameson: You could try taking a just one of them and then see how you feel like you know, but I think it's fine to take them it's it's really fine. So somebody's driving you so if you're a little extra sleepy.
Dr Jameson: That's fine. I mean, they kind of want you into that's kind of the point is to get you a little sleepy. So you're really relaxed. I would just say if you don't really want them so
Dr Jameson: I'm not saying anything about this particular dentist cuz I don't know anything. And I don't know what your teeth look like in there either, but they get paid to pull teeth. So the Marty they pull them or they get paid and
Dr Jameson: If you don't really want them to pull your teeth and don't consent to them pulling all your teeth fella. No, I just want you to pull the three that we talked the three and
Dr Jameson: You know, like don't sign the paper to get the rest of them pulled right now. You can always do it later. But if you're not so sure you want to do it. I
Dr Jameson: Because you. Why can't you get a partial on the bottom and a partial on the top.
zachariah Giffin: Well those ones right here right they're
zachariah Giffin: Pretty bad too.
zachariah Giffin: They're starting to break
zachariah Giffin: Okay, so
Dr Jameson: I mean the ones that are
Dr Jameson: Anyway, I don't know, I'm not, like I said, I'm not a dentist. I don't know the situation inside your mouth, but just some skepticism is warranted sometimes because I've seen people, young people, they're getting all their teeth book. And you're right. Like, I mean,
Dr Jameson: I don't know. I mean it. Unfortunately, when you don't have
Dr Jameson: Financial resources, you don't get the kind of dental care that people with dental with resources and insurance get where you know root canals and crowns and that all costs money.
Dr Jameson: So,
Dr Jameson: pulling teeth is the cheap.
Dr Jameson: The cheap solution really
Dr Jameson: So there's a lot of people losing all their teeth when they're very young, which is a shame but
Dr Jameson: But anyway.
Dr Jameson: I'm not, like I said, I don't want to second guess or make it sound like I think your dentist is a crook or something. I'm not saying that. But I have seen Matt happen in some cases. So just, just so you know.
Dr Jameson: Like the all these, um,
Dr Jameson: Anyway, so, but thank you for asking. And bringing to our attention and if, if you have a drug screen Monday and it shows some bendel's in it. We know where they came from.
Dr Jameson: For pain purposes. That's the other other question I would have a talk to you about post, post procedure pain control little
zachariah Giffin: Know I figure I would just be fine taking ibuprofen, though.
zachariah Giffin: Okay, I don't want any BEFORE THEY GIVE ME TYLENOL three, but I was on the Suboxone so I didn't even get it filled
Dr Jameson: Uh huh. Do they know you're on the Suboxone
zachariah Giffin: I'm pretty sure
zachariah Giffin: Like I'll make sure I when I go and I'm pretty sure I've told him all my medications. I'm one but Friday when I go in
zachariah Giffin: You know, make sure they know. Okay.
Dr Jameson: So this is what I would suggest, I have had patients as we talked about on Suboxone and having these kinds of things done and they do fine. What I would suggest is
Dr Jameson: Instead of taking a whole film in the morning and a whole film whenever you usually take them whatever times I would cut your doses in half.
Dr Jameson: And take. No, that sounds backwards, but you're going to still take two a day but you're going to take a half and then a half and then a half and a half, like split it up.
Dr Jameson: look smaller more frequent doses that works better for pain that way.
zachariah Giffin: Right.
Dr Jameson: Weird, but it does
zachariah Giffin: Though I. The reason I knew about the Suboxone mixing with the Benz's is because I have anxiety and I used to be on Klonopin but once I got Suboxone up my side. Dr. Know and
zachariah Giffin: They give me the GABBA and yeah
zachariah Giffin: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: Which is honestly better anyway because
Dr Jameson: Pencils are caused physical dependence and tolerance and all this and they can make you stop breathing and so they're not ideal anyway.
Dr Jameson: But yeah, when we can. We try to avoid the combination, but it's no longer consider like it used to be, if someone was taking a benzo they could not have Suboxone like you had to pick one or the other.
zachariah Giffin: Yeah.
Dr Jameson: And we're not quite as like stringent about that anymore. I still don't like pencils like for this one time before procedure. Perfect. That's a perfect use of them. But for every day, it's not great. Anyway, so
Dr Jameson: I I'm giving you permission. I don't know how much medicine you have, but I'm giving you permission to take an extra half or even two extra half's in the days right after your procedure if you're having if the Ibuprofen is really not enough.
Dr Jameson: It's going to be somewhat sore. It's really a question of how much you know how how
Dr Jameson: The degree. Right. Like, I think we can expect, you're going to have some pain. But if it's like you know you can't sleep and you're, you know, pulling your hair out because it's so so intense, even with ibuprofen.
Dr Jameson: You have my permission to take extra paths. You know, so six doses six half and the day instead of four. Don't go beyond that, without checking with me though. Okay.
Dr Jameson: No, I don't know if you have any extra if you'll have extra to get you through Tuesday. If you do that, you have
zachariah Giffin: I don't have extra like I have why just take today, but I'm on my way I bought some ice cream that will help with
zachariah Giffin: Okay, hold
Dr Jameson: On actually I just I just sent you two weeks worth so you would have, you're not going to run out between now and Tuesday. If you take extras for a few days. Right.
zachariah Giffin: No, but
Dr Jameson: But we could send an early prescription for the following week if we needed to and explain that you had, you know, used extra. But you're right. If you don't have to then let's not, but I just want to make sure you have that as the backup all else fails, you can do that.
zachariah Giffin: I'm doing I'm pretty confident with diabetes person.
zachariah Giffin: Said, I want to be him.
Dr Jameson: And I said, any
Dr Jameson: You know gabapentin is a pain reliever too so
Dr Jameson: You have right things there.
zachariah Giffin: I'm disappointed when I go and I'm pretty sure. Right. Like, I don't want all my bottom teeth out at once, and maybe dig into half and then the other half another time.
zachariah Giffin: So I think I'm wondering, because really I want my it takes forever to get your partials and stuff. And I want to be able to eat.
Dr Jameson: Uh huh. Yeah.
Dr Jameson: That makes sense. That makes sense to your mouth.
zachariah Giffin: Yeah, so
Dr Jameson: Okay, well thanks for letting me know. Good luck, I hope it goes smoothly.
Dr Jameson: And
Dr Jameson: I'll see you on Tuesday.
zachariah Giffin: All right.
Dr Jameson: I'll see you in touch it.
Dr Jameson: Be in touch. If anything goes really Haywire. Which I don't expect but just in case.
zachariah Giffin: All right, I will
Dr Jameson: Okay, welcome.
Dr Jameson: All right, we'll see you
Dr Jameson: Bye bye.
Dr Jameson: Okay, that was that Griffin, as you heard, you can just stuck meant like with it, but has an upcoming dental appointment and was given a prescription for try as a lamb.
Dr Jameson: To take one hour one and a half. I guess 90 minutes before his procedure and he wanted to check with me if that was okay um
Dr Jameson: Mental health, physical normal UD severe upcoming dental procedure plan.
Dr Jameson: I reassured patient a single dose when he's not driving is going to be fine.
Dr Jameson: We also talked about pain control post procedure if that's an issue. He's going to use ibuprofen.
Dr Jameson: To start, but if if he's still having pain. He can divide his normal Suboxone dose into for for smaller doses and I gave him permission to add an X up to an extra film a day if he needs to for pain relief for a couple days and before that we had Eric long for history physical
Dr Jameson: So he presents today for HTTP to discuss potential
Dr Jameson: Me tea for ongoing problem with opiates. You can again document what was said and summarize. I did update the past medical history, etc.
Dr Jameson: He
Dr Jameson: Call it back up.
Dr Jameson: I like to sort of lay out the criteria for opiate use disorder.
Dr Jameson: Kind of pilfer from
Dr Jameson: Das
Dr Jameson: Survey that they take.
Dr Jameson: He's taken more medication than required for medical reason he basically meets all the criteria minus having blackouts or flashbacks.
Dr Jameson: But he's mixed substances. He's been unable to stop when he wants to be filled filled guilty.
Dr Jameson: His parents complain about his us he's neglected family. He's engaged in illegal activities. He's experienced withdrawal symptoms and said, he said, medical problems, but I don't know what those were
Dr Jameson: Withdrawal symptoms. He detailed this last use was last night 9pm 15 milligrams of oxy code on
Dr Jameson: He's had one prior overdose, which just resulted in an ER visit. He's had three prior students in rehab and I. O. P. He's a few texts in the past as well. But that was stopped suddenly when the treatment facility. He was that went on the business.
Dr Jameson: So with your systems positive for headache. When you can list them headache, body aches.
Dr Jameson: Called Insomnia, restless legs diarrhea.
Dr Jameson: Well, I guess he's not having diarrhea and nausea, vomiting, now, but those can occur with more severe withdrawal.
Dr Jameson: Mental Status normal physical normal and I have a normal template, which I know there's new transcription. So I'm not sure if you don't mind before, but there's a normal template I use for my physical
Dr Jameson: And then assessment opiate use disorder severe, number one. Number two, depression, stable plan.
Dr Jameson: Patients a good candidate for me to peer he's tolerated subtext. In the past, but it's never used Suboxone period. He's fairly
Dr Jameson: informed about the
Dr Jameson: Mechanism of the medication and possible side effects we discussed importance of waiting until
Dr Jameson: Withdrawal symptoms are fairly intense before he takes this first dose.
Dr Jameson: We discussed the structure of our program. He's going to get initial labs. Done. Start with a half of a tablet and may repeat in an hour, making may repeat in an hour if symptoms have not improved.
Dr Jameson: Then he will take four to eight milligrams for slash 1282 milligrams twice daily. He's going to join our 8pm Tuesday group.
Dr Jameson: If you have any issues in the interim, we will organize a quick follow up individually.
Dr Jameson: Greater than 50% of this visit was spent counseling.
Dr Jameson: And that's the end.
For today.